# References
- slides: [01-Welcome!](https://cs61a.vercel.app/assets/slides/01-Welcome!.pdf)
- lab00: [2022fall](https://cs61a.vercel.app/lab/lab00/index.html),[2024fall](https://cs61a.org/lab/lab00/)
# Purpose
After completing this lab, you should be able to:
1. Set up your computer to complete assignments for CS 61A.
2. Understand some basics of Python.
3. Use essential tools required for this course.

# Tasks
## Install a Ubuntu Terminal (for Windows)
⚠ **Attention:** You need to carefully distinguish between **PowerShell** and **Bash** commands in the following steps, especially when Obsidian displays `bash` as `shell` in code blocks.

---
### Step 1: Install PowerShell 7 for Windows

1. Open PowerShell in Windows. By default, Windows 10 restricts the execution of PowerShell scripts for security reasons.
2. You will see a red warning message with a link to: [[https://aka.ms/pswindows](https://aka.ms/pswindows)].
3. Visit the above link, which redirects to the PowerShell migration guide: [Microsoft Docs - Migrating to PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/whats-new/migrating-from-windows-powershell-51-to-powershell-7?view=powershell-7.4).
4. Click "Installing PowerShell 7 (x64)", choose to download MSI package and ZIP package. here i chose MSI package.
5. then all you need is to follow the instruction.

### Step 2: Install `wsl` in PowerShell
1. Use `win + S` to search for PowerShell.
2. Right-click and choose "Run as Administrator" to open the PowerShell window.
3. Type `wsl --install` and press `Enter`.
4. Skip this step unless you see this:
```powershell
Installing, this may take a few minutes...
WslRegisterDistribution failed with error: 0x800701bc
Error: 0x800701bc WSL 2 ?????????????????? 
```
- You should visit [Manual installation steps for older versions of WSL--Step 4](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-manual#step-4---download-the-linux-kernel-update-package) or take the following steps (they are the same).
	1. Download the **latest** package: [WSL2 Linux kernel update package for x64 machines](https://wslstorestorage.blob.core.windows.net/wslblob/wsl_update_x64.msi).
	2. Double-click to run this package.
	3. Open PowerShell and type `wsl --set-default-version 2`

5. Open Microsoft Store and search for "Ubuntu", install the version you'd like to. For me, i chose Ubuntu 24.04 LTS.
6. Launch Ubuntu. Here I used `win + S` to search for and run it.
7. You may be asked to create a user name and passward. If not, you can still go to step 8.
8. Type `lsb_release -a` in bash.
9. If everything is fine, it will be seen like this:
```bash
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 24.04.1 LTS
Release:        24.04
```

---
### What If You're Logged In As Root
If you **weren’t** asked to create a username and password after launching Ubuntu, follow these steps:
#### Step 1: Create A New User
1. Open Bash and type `whoami`. If it outputs **"root"**, then you're logged in as the **root user** (meaning Ubuntu skipped the user setup).
2. run this and replace `<your_username>` with your preferred name.
```bash
adduser <your_username>
```
3. It will ask for a **password** → Enter a secure password.
4. It may ask for some additional info (Full Name, Room Number, etc.) → You can just press `Enter` to skip.
5. When asked "Is the information correct?", type `Y` and press `Enter`.

#### Step 2: Switch to New User
1. To allow your new user to run administrative (sudo) commands, add them to the **sudo** by typing :
```bash
usermod -aG sudo <your_username>
```
2. switch from **root** to your new user:
```bash
su - <your_username>
```
3. Press `win + R` and type `regeit`.

#### Step 3: Operate in Registry Editor
1. Navigate to the WSL Registry Path: In the Registry Editor, go to: `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Lxss`
2. You should see multiple entries inside `Lxss`, each represented as a GUID (long alphanumeric names like `{12345678-ABCD-90EF-1234-567890ABCDEF}`).
3. Click on each GUID **one by one**, and look for the key named `DistributionName`.When you find `DistributionName = Ubuntu-24.04`, that’s your Ubuntu installation.
4. Inside the **Ubuntu-24.04** entry, find the key named `DefaultUid` and double-click it. Select **Decimal** and set its value to 1000 (Because the first non-root user in a Linux system usually has UID `1000`.)
5. **Close Registry Editor** and restart WSL:
```powershell
wsl --shutdown
wsl
```

#### Step 4: Check the User
- run this in your bash:
```bash
whoami
```
it should show your new user name instead of root.

---
## Install Python 3
had done this before.
## Install a text editor
chose PyCharm before.
## Using the terminal
1. You can see `~$` at your terminal window (`$` for indicating bash and `%` for indicating zsh).
2. Try to run `echo "$HOME"` and shows `/home/<UserName>`.
- two ways to access the files and directories (folders) on the computer:
  1. use the terminal (a command line interface, or CLI)
  2. use Finder/Explorer (a graphics user interface, or GUI)
3. Use `python3` to check whether your Python 3 interpreter was installed correctly. If it works, you will see texts similar to this:
```bash
Python 3.12.3 (main, Sep 11 2024, 14:17:37) [GCC 13.2.0] on linux
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> 
```
These texts are about the interpreter followes by `>>>`. This is where you can type in your Python code. For example:
```python
>>> print("Hello World")
Hello World
```
You can type `exit()` or `Ctrl + D` to return to your command line.
## Organizing Your Files Using Terminal Commands
### `cd` - change directory
1. First change into your main home directory.
```shell
cd /mnt/c/Users/
```
2. Type `ls` to see folders and find your username. For, it's `zzy`, so let's move into the `Desktop`:
```shell
cd /mnt/c/Users/zzy/Desktop
```
3. You can type `ls` again to check what's on your desktop (`ls` - list).

### `mkdir` - makes a new directory
1. Let's make a directory called `cs61a` in the `Desktop` dirctory to store all of the assignments for this class.
```shell
mkdir cs61a
```
Then a folder called cs61a will appear on the desktop.
2. Create two new folders in the `cs61a` folder. One called `projects` and the other called `lab`.
```shell
cd /mnt/c/Users/zzy/Desktop/cs61a
mkdir projects
mkdir lab
```
### Returning to the Home Directory
1. `cd ..` → Moves **one level up** to the parent directory.
2. `cd ~` → Moves directly to your home directory.
3. `cd` → Short for `cd ~`, also moves to your home directory.
### Check the Download For Lab00
- Type the following command.
```shell
cd /mnt/c/Users/zzy/Downloads
ls
```
(it will be sooooo long!)
## Extracting Starter Files
In this course, it is recommended to use the **terminal** to unzip files. However, you can also use **Bandizip** or **7-Zip** to extract `lab00.zip` manually.
The new folder called `lab00` contains the following files:
- `lab00.py`: The template file you'll be adding your code to.
- `ok`: A program used to test and submit assignments.
- `lab00.ok`: A configuration file for `ok`.
## Moving Files
`mv` - move
Move the lab files to the lab folder that created earlier:
```shell
mv <source path> <destination path>
```
## the Python Part
Packages:
- okpy version == 1.18.1
- pip == 23.2.1
- urllib3 == 1.25.7

	The **`ok`** test ran successfully in **PyCharm**, but it failed when executed in the terminal.
here's my code:
```python
def twenty_twenty_two():  
    """Come up with the most creative expression that evaluates to 2022,  
    using only numbers and the +, *, and - operators.  
    >>> twenty_twenty_two()    
    2022    
    """    
    total = 0  
    
    for i in range(1,101):  
        total += i  
    total *= 0.4  
    
    return int(total) + 2
```